
CALL FOR PAPERS 

19th Workshop on Adaptive and Reflective Middleware (ARM 2020) 
co-located with Middleware 2020, December 7-11, 2020, Delft, The Netherlands

https://armworkshop.github.io/

Important Dates
---------------
All deadlines are 11:59 PM (AoE Anywhere on Earth)

Paper submission: September 14, 2020 (firm deadline)
Acceptance notification: October 5, 2020
Camera-ready: October 16, 2020 (firm deadline)
Workshop: December 7-11, 2020


Workshop Overview
-----------------


The 19th Workshop on Adaptive and Reflective Middleware (ARM 2020) will
celebrate 20 years since the first edition of the workshop, held in conjunction
with the ACM/IFIP/USENIX Middleware 2000 Conference in Palisades, NY, USA.
This year, we intend to follow on the success of over two decades of previous
editions providing researchers with a leading edge view on the state of the art
in adaptive middleware and the engineering of adaptive and autonomous
distributed systems. New classes of applications such as smart and connected
city applications, industrial networked and cloud applications, the Internet of
Things, intelligent transport, smart grids, Blockchain networks and their
combination drive the need for new adaptive middleware solutions.

Applying reflective techniques to open-up the implementation of middleware and
related software platforms for interoperability, one-to-many deployment, and
adaptability have proved particularly successful and influential in the past.
However, there are still open challenges, such as scalability and decentralized
management as well as resilient and autonomous real-time operations, that
require further investigation to address new use cases in large and diverse
deployment contexts, such as smart city infrastructures (transportation
networks, smart grids, and water systems), communication networks, healthcare
platforms, etc.
 
This edition follows the path initiated in recent editions, by bringing
together experts involved in designing and reusing adaptive systems at
different system layers, including architectural, OS, virtualization
technology, and network layers, as well as in using techniques that are
complementary to reflection. The workshop series also seek to provide an
exciting environment to foster cooperation among researchers.

 
Topics of interest include but are not limited to: 

* Design and performance of adaptive and reflective middleware platforms; 

* Experiences with adaptive and reflective technologies in specific domains
  (e.g., sensor networks, ubiquitous/pervasive computing, mobile computing,
  smart and connected communities, cyber-physical systems, Internet of Things,
  cloud computing, P2P, Systems-of-Systems); 
  
* Cross-layer interactions and adaptation mechanisms, including network, OS,
  VM & device level techniques;
  
* Adaptation and reflection in the presence of heterogeneous execution and
  programming paradigms;
   
* Incorporating non-functional properties into middleware, including real-time,
  fault-tolerance, immutability, persistence, security, trust, privacy and
  so on;
  
* Fundamental developments in the theory and practice of reflection, adaptation
  and control, as it relates to middleware and its interaction with other layers;
  
* Techniques to improve performance and/or scalability of adaptive and
  reflective mechanisms;
  
* Evaluation methodologies for adaptive and reflective middleware; guidelines,
  testbeds and benchmarks;
  
* Approaches to maintain the integrity of adaptive and reflective technologies;
 
* Design and programming abstractions to manage the complexity of adaptive and
  reflective mechanisms;
  
* Software engineering methodologies for the design and development of adaptive
  middleware;
  
* Methods for reasoning, storing and dynamically updating knowledge about the
  services provided by adaptive/reflective middleware;
  
* The role of AI and machine learning in the design of lifelong adaptive
  middleware;
  
* Metrics on properties such as cost-of-adaptation, quality-of-adaptation,
  consistency-of-adaptation, yields.
 



Submission Guidelines
---------------------

All submissions should be made electronically through HotCRP (submission link will be provided at https://armworkshop.github.io/).

Submitted and accepted papers should be no longer than 6 pages in the standard
ACM format for conference proceedings.  Document templates for most popular
document processing tools can be found at:
https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template

At least one author on each accepted paper must hold a full pre-conference
registration. Papers will be available in the ACM Digital Library.

We will aim to create better outreach for the papers in ARM by selecting the
best papers from the workshop and inviting the authors of those papers to submit
an extended and expanded manuscript (40% new material will be required for the
extended manuscript) towards a publication in the SpringerNature Journal of
Internet Services and Applications.


Workshop Co-Chairs
------------------
* Renato Cerqueira, IBM Research, Brazil
* Shangping Ren, San Diego State University, USA

Contact: rcerq at br(dot)ibm(dot)com


Publicity Chair
---------------
* Yusuf Sarwar, University of Missouri-Kansas City, USA

Contact: muddin at umkc(dot)edu

Steering Committee
--------------------
* Gordon Blair, Lancaster Univ., UK.
* Fabio M Costa, Federal Univ of Goias, Brazil.
* Fabio Kon, Univ. of Sao Paulo, Brazil.
* Renato Cerqueira, IBM Research, Brazil.
* Paulo Ferreira, INESC-ID, Portugal.
* Nalini Venkatasubramanian, Univ. of California, Irvine, USA.


Programme Committee
-------------------
TBD
